Any government in the world must be given power to interfere in the lives of the public to a certain extent as that is the only way it can have its intended effect on society however, an arena that should always be considered untouchable is freedom of the press. The government should never have any control or say in the affairs of any publication as the press is an essential and necessary check on a governments power that must be as impartial as possible. This is not to say that MacLeans magazine is justified in regularly printing content that is clearly islamophobic without offering a contrarian viewpoint, it is just so that if the government were to control MacLeans content, they would have a tool that could potentially be used to manipulate public opinion and that is the mark of a truly dystopian soceity. 
In December 2007, complaints were filed against MacLeans magazine for repeatedly publishing Islamophobic articles including an excerpt from Mark Steyns book titled The Future belongs to Islam in which Steyn tries to make an argument of how Muslim migration to the West could bring a whole set of challenges due to the nature of Islam as a religion. Complaints were filed in the Ontario Human Rights Commission, British Columbia Human Rights Commission and the Canadian Human Right Commission all of whom dismissed the complaint. The Ontario Human Rights Commission dismissed the complaint on the basis of not having jurisdiction to make a ruling whereas the British Columbia Human Rights Commission ruled that the article did not actually violate human rights. The Canadian Human Rights Commission also dismissed the case as they deemed Steyns comments of not an extreme nature. While the three commissions did use different wording and give different reasons for the dismissal, the overall theme was that they did not consider Steyns comments to be dangerous to the point where they must be suppressed. The Commissions understood that violating freedom of press and forcing a publication to edit its content is something that can have huge ramifications for years and should not be treated as a small matter which is why they dismissed the complaints despite the obvious racism and discrimination in Steyns article. 
The press, at its core, serves the purpose of providing information and educating the masses about a governments performance and this goes a long way in framing the publics opinion about that government and ipso facto over that governments chances of getting re-elected. It would be a precarious situation to be in if a government were to have control over the press as then it could potentially influence public opinion, even to the point of societal brainwashing. Allowing the government to interfere in a publications content once may be justified in an extreme case however, that one case may be the precedent that allows future governments unrestricted power to control the media which is far from ideal. While the Commissions refrained from interfering into the content of MacLeans magazine by citing different reasons, they also avoided setting a precedent that would allow future governments to cite this case if they were to try to restrict the media for some other reason. It becomes truly dangerous when a government has the power to decide whether or not an opinion or an article can or cannot be shared with the public as at that point the government is acting without its most vocal critic. Theoretically, a Prime Minister could have the power to forbid a publication to write about alleged corruption charges against him or to not expose a picture of him dressed in a racist costume, which is power that a Prime Minister should not have in any case whatsoever. The public must have access to impartial and factual information about the government and its members and their performance regardless of whether that information presents those individuals in a positive manner or not. Furthermore, the opinionated articles or columns in a publication also provide value regardless of their subject matter as they trigger discussion and possibly education. Stifling an opinion just because it is convenient to do so for a government is an extremely slippery slope and is a commonality between all the dictatorships throughout human history. There is no objective way to determine the value of an opinion so if the government does start stifling and suppressing opinions, it will do so based on subjective criteria and that can be an extremely dangerous weapon against freedom of speech. The truth is that this element of subjectivity would allow governments to censor opinions with minimal opposition and that is not the place we want to be at as a society as  We can never be sure that the opinion we are endeavouring to stifle is a false opinion; and if we were sure, stifling it would be an evil still (Mill 19). 
The counter argument to the government not censoring any media publication would be that this could lead to a rise in hate speech and racist remarks which would have especially unpleasant consequences in a multicultural society like Canada since there would be no repercussions or ramifications for it. While there is no doubt that a free media market will lead to more divisive remarks, I disagree that this would lead to a situation where media companies are not being held accountable at all. Readers are the most important thing to a publication as it directly affects their bottom line and they will go to any length to make sure that their readers are happy and do not get offended by anything they may read. This is especially the case in the age of social media activism as everyone has a platform to raise their concerns or to make a stand. Publications have to be especially careful to make sure that their material does not cross the line of being hateful or discriminatory as a single mistake could lead to a public relations disaster which could take years to recover from. This could in turn lead to consumers directly refusing to purchase the product of that company which would cause substantial damages to that companies finances and reputation. In the case of MacLeans magazine and its habit of continuosly printing Islamophobic articles in 2007, the magazine did suffer a 9.5% drop in readership the following year which might be a minimal drop if such a situtation were to occur today. Recent examples of media boycotting such as that of American news host Tucker Carlson offer a better example of the power of the consumer as millions of people pledged to boycott Carlsons TV show after he made several comments saying that white supremacy is actually not a real problem in America. While these comments did not have a significant impact on Carlsons viewing numbers, they did impact his sponsors as many of them severed ties with him as a result of his comments and ensuing backlash. As many as 50 prominent companies including Jaguar, Samsung, Nestle, Lexus and Indeed released statements announcing the end of their relationship with Carlson and condemning his comments. It would be fair to say that Steyns article and MacLeans editorial choices as a whole are similarly inflammatory and racist as Carlsons comments if not even more so, which is why if MacLeans was to publish such an article today, they could also expect a reaction similar to the one felt by Carlson and this is something that publications understand and fear. While, MacLeans is by no means a liberal or progressive publication, Its recent coverage of Islam and Muslims shows a much more balanced opinion rather compared to the run of 20 blatanatly Islamophobic articles over a period of just 2 years in 2007. Recent articles that show up when searching Islam as the keyword include those that speak out against Bill 62 of Quebec, talk about the struggles faced by Muslim highschoolers and report hate crimes against Muslims. This shift in MacLeans publishing record is indicative of them realizing that the public is more knowledgeable now and they have the power to actually hurt their revenue. This nullifies the need for the government to have any say or influence whatsoever in the media as the public has the power to boycott corporations and companies that they feel condone values or ideologies that are immoral and wrong.
Additionally, we have multiple examples throughout history and even currently in countries that have violated press freedom and how that carries connotations of dictatorship. Freedom House is a non-governmental organization that conducts research on press freedom and human rights and publishes a yearly report called the Freedom of the Press in which it classifies countries and its press as free, partly free or not free based on a ranking out of 100. The lowest ranked countries on these lists are usually autocratic kingdoms such as Saudi Arabia and the UAE ,countries embroiled in civil war such as Yemen and Sudan or countries with an overbearing military or leaders who have dictatorial tendencies such as Pakistan, China, Russia and North Korea. This shows how freedom of the press is neglected in countries that are not shining examples of democracy and liberty which highlights how trying to control the media or manipulate public opinion is not a tendency that the Canadian government should give into. Looking specifically at the Communist Party of China and its leader, Xi Jinping who has installed a draconian system of censorship in China which allows him to completely block the mention of certain words online. This can be done because major social media sites like Youtube, Facebook and Twitter are completely banned in China and are substituted by their Chinese version which are controlled by the government. This allows the government to control the flow of information in mainland China to the point where the outside world may be more aware of Chinese governments intentions than the Chinese public itself. In recent years, the Chinese government has been strongly accused of human rights crimes against its Muslim population. The Chinese government has admitted to containing Muslims without a trial in facilities that they call re-education camps. This admission may come as a shock to the rest of the world and may bring about comparisons of Auschwitz however, the Chinese government has put out propaganda in support of these camps which allows them to win the support of their population. There is public proof about the horrors in the camps, by way of satellite imagery, expose articles or even by the fact that the Chinese government had previously repeatedly denied the existence of these camps by straight up lying. However, the Chinese public may still not be aware of them because trying to find actual information about these re-education camps inside mainland China is extremely hard as the government has complete control over the print media, digital media, television networks and the internet as a whole. Modern day China is the perfect example of why the press and the media as a whole must be allowed complete freedom as they have an important role to play as providers of information and critics of the government. If this role is hijacked by the government then there is no value to it and the government can basically operate without no one left to check its power and that is defined as a dictatorship. 
In conclusion, the Canadian government should not interfere with any type of media or publication as this would violate the freedom of the press and will certainly cause more bad than good. An interference by the government could lead to a precedent being set and allowing for similar interference in the future causing Canada to move towards being a more restrictive society especially since there is no need for such governmental influence in media publications in this day and age. No government in any part of the world should have any control over the media of that country as the media is a necessary and harsh critic that acts as a beacon of public opinion and public opinion should not be dictated by the government. 

